---
Date: 2022-12-07 09:20
Difficulty/Rating:
url: https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-subarray/description/
---
Tags: #greedy #array #DivideConqure #dynamicprogramming 
SourceTag (e.g. leetcode): #leetcode

---
### First Approach (Kadane's Algorithm) or Greedy or Dynamic Programming

```go
func maxSubArray(nums []int) int {
	globalMax := nums[0]
	previousSum := nums[0]
	
	for i := 1; i < len(nums); i++{
		if val := previousSum+nums[i]; val < nums[i]{
			previousSum = nums[i]
		}else{
			previousSum = val
		}
		
		if previousSum > globalMax{
			globalMax = previousSum
		}
	}
	return globalMax
}
```

#### Description
Consider this array:
- [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]
if we meet all positive elements, than we should sum as many as possible.

Now consider this array:
- [-1, -2 ,-3 ,-4 ,-5]
if we meet all negative elements, then we should avoid adding them as possible.

But what about this:
- [5, -1, 6]
Should we add the negative value ?
Obviously yes

How about this one:
- [5, -6, 6]
Obvously no, we should skip the negative six.

Therefore the question turns into this:
How to decide if we should keep the negative value or not? (Important point)
In other words, reset the array to current value. meaning 6, instead of 5 + -6 + 6

Lets think through:
What we could do is create two variables.
1. Stores the global maximum (answer)
2. Stores the local sum (which is the sum of previous elements, important point)

How do we use these information to decide the negative number ?
let us think the previous last two examples.
[5, -1, 6]
[5, -6, 6]
What is the turning point ?
More example.
[5, -2, 6] y
[5, -3, 6] y
[5, -4, 6] y
[5, -5, 6] y or n
[5, -6, 6] n

Now we know the key of keeping the negatives, it's not about the current negative value,
its about the value after we add the negatives.

if we are at position 2, (value 6)
we see that after adding the negative number is
3, 2, 1, 0, -1 (in the example order)

If we want to decide, of course we want to keep the value that is benefit for us.
Therefore we want to compare that after adding this previous sum is our value becomes
larger.

That is previous_sum + current_value >(or >=) current_value
At least it should be equal as itself.

Now everything is clear. If previous_sum + current_value < or (<=) current_value
we choose the current_value instead of sum.



Time Complexity :: O(N)
Space Complexity :: O(1)


### Second Approach (Divide and Conqure)

```go

```

#### Description


Time Complexity::
Space Complexity::